Firstly, stop comparing yourself to people around you , they may understand the coding process fast enough and might start writing complex codes even before you understand simple ones, but,in my experience, the ones who take longer time to learn turn out to be the best coders and their codes tend to be more creative . DO NOT ASK FOR  HELP. No matter how difficult the solution is , try to figure it out yourself, no matter how long it takes, unless the project has a deadline, in that case, use help.Stick with the problem no matter how hard it is, do not give up. Do not rely on books till you have some programming  experience , then books make sense.Solve Puzzles and play games that help exercise you brains.Most coders do not want another coder in the industry , that's why they kinda make it seem more difficult than it is(that doesn't mean coding is easy too). You can excel in coding only if you stop taking help from others, until and unless absolutely necessary don't ask for help .

Programming is just logic
There's nothing mystical about it. You're just writing out logic in a way that a computer can understand. This is what determines how programming feels. There are no ambiguities. The computer always does exactly what you tell it to; when it does the wrong thing, it means somebody told it to the wrong thing. The computer won't reason for you. It won't try to guess what you meant. It will just do exactly what you said to do.

This also means that the underlying behavior for most programs is surprisingly simple. Expressing it in unambiguous logic means you have to simplify it. So when you think your android game is conspiring against you? It's probably just random in the background. Randomness is much simpler than intelligent, malignant behavior! (This is harder to say with machine learning getting more popular because machine learning algorithms, while still simple, can express surprising emergent behavior.)

The best thing about computers is that they do exactly what you tell them to. The worst thing about computers is that they do exactly what you tell them to. And that describes programming in just two sentences :).


Most tasks in life are significantly easier than we'd like to believe. In fact, nearly every goal you have is really just made up a series of small decisions followed by short actions. However, it's the in-between that consumes the most time. That's the Dead Space. 